TAPESTRY
========

Tapestry is a set of experiments in developing a multi-scheme
"clearing and settlement mechanism" (CSM) for account to account
payments between "payment service providers" (PSP) such as banks and
other financial institutions. Tapestry is not production quality
software. It is best understood in the tradition of operating systems
developed to teach computer science concepts. Minix and Xv6 are
examples of Unix-like teaching operating systems.

With Tapestry the teaching objective is "payments engineering" and the
target audience is software engineers who have at least some practice
in software development, but little or no exposure to financial
technology in general and payment systems in particular. The Tapestry
source code is designed to illustrate concepts in payment systems
through running code. By exploring and modifying the Tapestry source
code, a software engineer can develop a more intuitive understanding
and mental models of how payments work. developing this type of
understanding with production systems is more difficult due to system
complexity and often high degree of legacy code. Furthermore, access
to production payment systems is naturally rather limited unless one
is employed at a financial institution.

Tapestry has been developed as part of a Master's Thesis project in
Computer Science at the University of Helsinki. It is the idea that
the Tapestry code is explored with the thesis document as a
companion. Payment systems and related concepts are covered at some
length in the thesis.

**FIXME**: Add a link to the online version of the thesis here once it
is submitted for review.

*What's in the name? See "Star Trek: TNG (S6E15)".*
